Adding win loss conditions.
In this video we'll cover adding UI text for score and time will reward points for collecting the coins
and will create a timer for the loss condition.
For winning, we'll add the finish area which our crazy ball can reach and collide with.
Here's the test breakdown.
We'll create the crazy ball UI prefab and C-sharp script.
Then we'll add the finish area prefab and see sharp script.
Then we'll add the crazy ball game, which will drive the high level logic for our gameplay.
And between each of these, we'll add the win and loss conditions.
This screenshot represents our target goal for the project will open up section six, Video four and
the scene Crazy Ball four.
All right, here we are in unity and we're jumping into Crazy Ball four.
Now, what we've added here is the UI and the other code for the rules of the game.
This is the win and loss conditions.
So let's take a look.
We've got this finish area set up.
It looks like a checkerboard.
And we've got this collider here.
So when our ball interacts with that, we're able to trigger the game to be over.
Then we've got the UI, which is the time and the score and a results text that's currently invisible,
ready to be populated with values of the current time and the current score, etc..
And then we've got this new crazy ball game script.
So let's take a look at each of those three.
In the crazy ball UI.
If we wanted to add UI, we'd create a game object from scratch.
With a UI, we'd be able to create this by creating a game object and then creating the UI with different
text values.
We'd go ahead and do that in position on the screen.
Then we add a custom UI script here and drag in the references to each of the text fields that we want
to be able to change.
So let's start by taking a look at that crazy ball UI script.
So what we do is we take in the different references as serialized fields and then simply have a public
method for each of them, one to show the time, one to show the score, and then in the end, one to
show the result.
Depending if you've won or lost, be able to show unique text there.
The crazy ball game, which sits in the scene on its own game object, is able to hold the score and
hold the time.
And within each of those, when you set the score, for example, it just calls that show score method
and calls the show time method.
So you can see the interaction between the crazy ball game and the crazy ball UI.
Sit down here.
We set the initial values of score and how much time we have left.
Those will get shown to the UI.
And then on update, we tick down the time.
Down from 30 down to zero.
And then if it reaches zero, we are able to set the end game.
And setting the end game will lock in that the game is over so that different systems in the game can
stop.
You no longer can have input, for example, and then show that result in the UI.
Then one more thing I want to show.
Inside the crazy ball itself, this is how we handle the finish area collision.
It's quite simple again, because we don't want that bounding box of the finish area to feel like a
box we can't penetrate.
We use a trigger and the trigger allows us to go inside of that volume, but we're able to end the game
properly using the on trigger enter.
Let's give it a play.
We can see the time ticking down.
We can see the score going up every time I get the coins.
And then if I make my way over to the finish area, the moment I enter that trigger volume, it says
I win.
I'll hit spacebar to restart and we could let the timer fall all the way down.
If it did, it would show a similar message to our UN, except it would say you lose.
And that's the only difference.
So there's all the win and loss conditions and our new scripting.
In the next video, we'll cover adding extra polish.